# BattleShip
Battleship Entry Level Python Project

Create a space themed single player variation of Battleship. This is a classic guessing game
dating back to the 1930s in which players try to shoot enemy ships in a ten-by-ten grid by
guessing grid coordinates. The ships occupy groups cells of various shapes on the grid. After
each guess, the program will indicate whether the shot was a hit or a miss. Once all of a ship’s
coordinates have been hit, the ship is destroyed. The goal is to locate and destroy each ship
in a fleet of five ships with as few shots as possible. The fleet consists of a mothership that
occupies 5 cells, a battleship that occupies 4 cells, a destroyer that occupies 3 cells, a stealth
ship that occupies 3 cells, and a patrol ship that occupies 2 cells. The shapes of each ship can
be seen in the examples below.
At the start of your program, the player should be presented with a main menu from which
they can choose between; viewing the instructions, viewing an example map, starting a new
game, viewing the hall of fame, or exiting the program. If the player enters an invalid choice,
the program should display an appropriate error message and let the player try again until a
valid selection is made. The program should only end if the player chooses to exit.
Choosing to view the instructions will display instructions and then return to the main
menu. Choosing to view an example map will display a map grid with the ship locations
marked and then return to the main menu. This map should be generated by your make_grid
function, described below.

When starting a new game, the computer should call a function named make_grid to gen-
erate a randomized grid with the location of each ship. This function should take no argu-
ments and return the grid as a list of ten nested lists, with 10 elements each. The elements
in the inner lists should be single character strings. For the locations of the ships, use ‘M’, ‘B’,
‘D’, ‘S’, and ‘P’ to represent the mothership, battleship, destroyer, stealth ship, and patrol ship,
respectively. All the other elements should be ‘∼’ to represent empty space. No other portion
of your program should involve random chance.
The grid is displayed to the user with rows labeled by letters A through J, and columns la-
beled by numbers 0 through 9. The location of the ships is masked such that initially, all the
locations show empty space. In each round, the player will choose a target by entering the row
number and column number as a single string (e.g. ‘g6’). If the player enters an invalid tar-
get, the program should display an invalid input message and let the player try again without
counting a shot. For valid targets, the program should tell the user whether the shot was a hit
or a miss, and then the next round begins by displaying an updated grid with hits marked by
‘x’s and misses marked by ‘o’s before waiting for the next guess.
The game ends when the player successfully destroys all the ships. A final score is based
on the player’s accuracy and is determined by dividing the number of hits by the total number
of shots taken. If the player quits before destroying all the ships, their score is not calculated.
If their accuracy score is higher than the lowest score in the Hall of Fame or if there are fewer
than 10 records in the Hall of Fame, the player’s name and accuracy should be added at the ap-
propriate position in the Hall of Fame. Then a message should be displayed that congratulates
the player and shows the Hall of Fame as a table with columns for rank, accuracy, and player
name. The table should be sorted from highest to lowest accuracy. If multiple players have the
same accuracy, they should be listed in the order that their scores were achieved (i.e. the first
player to achieve 50% should appear above any subsequent players who achieve 50%). Once 
the game is complete, the program returns to the main menu.
From the main menu, the player can also choose to view the Hall of Fame. This option
displays the same table presented to the user when they achieve a high score. Hall of fame
records should be saved in a file named battleship_hof.txt. The first line in the file is a
header with column labels. Each subsequent line in the file should be a player’s name followed
by a comma, their number of hits followed by a comma, and their number of misses. Only the
top ten accuracy scores (hits divided by total shots) should be kept. The data from the file
should be updated with any new high scores before your program ends.
Other than the function make_grid described above, you are free to design your program
however you like. You may use object-oriented programming techniques, but are not required
to do so.
Test your program thoroughly. Format your program to match the samples below. Your
output should exactly match the sample output, character for character, including all white
space and punctuation. User input in the sample has been highlighted in Pappy’s Purple to
distinguish it from the program’s output, but your user input does not need to be colored. Save
your program as battleship_login.py, where login is your Purdue login, and then submit
it. Screenshots are not required.
